greetings all welcome back to another
episode of the China history podcast as
usual Laszlo Montgomery here with
another random topic from Chinese
history this week we're gonna look at
Taoism and try and explain what it's
sort of about where it came from and
just some general info and mostly
historical background it's a heavy
subject as all philosophies and
religions tend to be so I'm gonna try
and focus just on the history and basic
details about how it all started and
then later on in another episode we'll
delve a little deeper and look at the
gods spirits and rituals will durant
said it best when he said lots of the
greatest of the pre Confucian
philosophers was wiser than dung Cher he
knew the wisdom of silence and lived we
may be sure to a ripe old age though
we're not sure he lived at all into
quote Will Durant again from vol 1 of
his 11 vol masterpiece on the story of
civilization tradition which knows
everything credits him with his book the
daodejing and his name lotsa neither of
which may have belonged to him and that
nearly sums it up as far as who loud so
was where he came from and what he's
famous for that's the honest truth
no one knows for sure after all time in
question is still the Bronze Age it's
ancient China five six hundred years
before Christ
so much was still a mystery to all men
no matter in China or elsewhere in the
age of the ancient Zhuo Dynasty Chinese
civilization had had the benefits of
writing since at least Shang Oracle bone
days and by the time of the Zhuo Kings
the writing had developed an educated
manners spinning that magic with the
language that great writers can do when
you have a lot of writing gushing forth
during these Jo dynasty times trying to
explain the unknown there were a lot of
questions about nature about man's place
in nature a man's relationship to his
fellow human and man's destiny and
purpose so now in the Jo dynasty people
emerge whose attempts to explain
everything
oh they're admired and studied by others
and its spread
throughout society and this was the age
of Lao Tzu Confucius and the the hundred
schools of thought now I know you know
all this I'm going to say it anyway for
those who forgot we're in the feudal
period of China Qin Shi Huangdi the
first emperor of China is still more
than three and a half centuries in the
future the Jo was the longest dynasty in
Chinese history from stem to stern it
ran from 1046 BC to 256 BC a grand total
of seven hundred and ninety years but
you all know that Jo dynasty is founded
by the G family they were pushed aside
by 771 BC and starting right after that
we have the so called
eastern jo dynasty also called the later
Jo it's divided up into the spring and
autumn period which lasts until
approximately 475 BC and the warring
States Period which picked up right
where the spring and autumn left off
until just before Qin Shi Huang unified
the country in 221 BC as a point of
reference to what was going on
concurrently in the Western world this
time of lanza and Confucius this is just
prior to the Classical period in Greece
the period that brought us
Sophocles Socrates Homer Herodotus Plato
Aristotle this is 5th century Greece the
time that lotsa supposedly lived and
when Confucius walked the earth it was
just about the same time give or take a
few decades the Roman Republic was just
about to get started right about now as
well all the good stuff loud sir
Confucius the whole hundred schools of
thought all went down during this
ancient period during the spring and
autumn period of course named for the
2000 or spring and autumn annals of
Confucius it was a rough era to be
living in but it yielded quite a rich
treasure as far as Chinese philosophy is
concerned you know basically all we have
is the daodejing and the trongsa that's
about it the daodejing is a little more
than 5,000 characters in length and like
the Bible or Quran you can sort of
interpret it in a bunch of different
ways you can pretty much take it
anywhere you want
take it did louts write it did lotsa
ever live who knows this was really a
momentous work and it spawned so much
thought and so many customs and
traditions that became part of the
fabric of Chinese civilization and how
it developed over the next 2,000 years
this is especially so when you look at
the Chinese countryside there are a
multitude of gods and spirits and
interesting characters who all came from
various parts of China and these tales
of spirits and extraordinary powers they
all naturally sort of gravitated towards
Taoism and Taoism absorbed these many
beliefs synthesized them and
incorporated them into the Taoist
religion this short work that thought
Jing has to be attributed to someone
someone had to conveniently exist who
could be quoted and referred to Lao Tzu
could have been an amalgamation of
several people who yielded all this
wisdom and sayings over time but outdid
Jing might simply be this collection of
all this wisdom in one single work let's
quickly take a look at Lao tzus name now
in the way Giles system of romanization
his name is spelled la OH - Tzu so any
reader of the English alphabet of sane
mind and all their faculties about them
would read this as Lao Tzu nothing wrong
with that no big deal so the writer to
whom the daodejing is credited he's
pretty much been loud sue to the west at
least since the 19th century
in any case tradition says his surname
was Li and his full name was Li are half
the sources I you said Lanza lived in
the fourth century BC the other half
said the sixth century BC the authority
on all things philosophical and
historical Melvyn Bragg in his December
16th in our time podcast said the sixth
century Taoism isn't a monotheistic
religion that ever talked about or
mentioned a supreme anthropomorphic God
it's a polytheistic religion evolving a
multitude of gods
there aren't any prayers or hymns like
we do have and other religions the
concept of Dharma and Hinduism is
sometimes loosely compared to the doll
today we're gonna sort of dissect it a
little and not get too into the actual
writings of the daodejing but instead
look at the history of Taoism and some
basic explanations about what it's all
about and maybe how it got off the
ground and developed in China it's sort
of part intellectual philosophical part
spiritual religious and lastly Taoism is
part rich folk tradition that varied
from region to region of China it was
all of these things the symbol of Taoism
is the well-known recognizable and
downright iconic yin and Yan symbol that
you're all familiar with that represents
the balance of opposites in the universe
now that we got loud out of the way I'll
give you Chinese lesson numerous by dau
Dao as with the name of the old master
lots the whole study of Taoism has grown
up since time immemorial spelling Tao as
tau ta Oh
so thanks to Thomas Wade and Herbert
Giles just as loud sue is referred to
commonly as loud - so is Dolph called
Tao and the daodejing
it's known as the Tao Te Ching dahl
fourth tone duh second town and Jing
first tone Dao de Jing I have to admit
as soon as I went from source to source
and research the meaning of Dom as it
relates to Taoism they lost me right
away the way the way the way is
explained it's so wow man yeah I could
totally dig it you know there's no easy
tell-all definition let me give you the
clinical definition of the character Dom
fourth tone it means road way or path it
also means way in the sense of method
this character can also mean doctrine or
principle and of course after all these
years it also means Taoism it can also
mean line like draw a line on a paper in
banquets it can also mean well it's it's
a counter for courses like an
eight-course dinner Bop outside the one
thought
dah would also be used in this case but
as far as Taoism is concerned definition
number one is the one that counts Road
way or path in the Taoist sense when you
say the way what you actually mean is
the way of nature the great cosmic
harmony at its most raw and basic level
Taoism calls for mankind to live
modestly and in tune with nature and his
surroundings nature and the cosmos have
their way about them and Taoism is all
about how to follow that way and
maintain balance and harmony in the
world without that Jing is the roadmap
of the guy that puts all the meat on the
bones and helps to explain this
mysterious and cosmic power that's
present in all natural things it offers
a primer on the proper conduct
individuals should take there are plenty
of bad guys in Taoism intellectuals are
not admired unlike Confucianism to be
learned and a scholar is completely of
no use in fact Taoism considers the
learned man a detriment to the state
since he thinks and legal esprit de minh
suppresses mankind rather than benefits
mankind everything was great when
everything was simple
before the days when men attained
certain knowledge and began organizing
societies of building cities Taoism I
guess ultimately called a perfect world
one where man never interfered with
nature used his intelligence or power to
scheme his schemes and his ned beatty so
eloquently aptly put it back in the 1976
film network meddle with the primal
forces of nature nature in the Taoist
sense means natural activity how
everything flows in nature all the
seasonal cycles the Stars the moon the
rainy season the dry season everything
that is of nature that's unchanging
Taoism embraces all of that unreservedly
one of the Holy Grails of Taoism is to
truly understand this nature and the
only way to understand it is to flow
with it how you flow with it
well that's where that wasn't gets very
very intricate and complex it's all
about quiescence being quiet inactive
dormant refusing to interfere with the
natural course of things practicing
Taoism is all about this sounds simple
but it isn't this concept of quiescence
and going with the flow in Chinese also
has a name and this is called wool way
if you look up way in a Chinese
dictionary it says in action Moo way is
a hard one to really understand and get
your arms around especially in this 21st
century hyper materialistic world we
live in to practice wool way and
everything you do which is what Lao it's
essentially calls for you achieve action
through inaction by practising wool way
you can utilize the power of emptiness
detachment receptiveness spontaneity the
relationship between all humans and the
search for a long life wool way touches
on all of this by practicing new way you
can utilize the power of emptiness
detachment receptiveness spontaneity the
relationship between all humans and the
search for long life will way it touches
on all of this
Taoism warns against the self-defeating
consequences of being aggressive and
assertive to get your way or to act in
any way that can be construed to be self
aggrandizing no matter if you're a
nation an army or just a individual
member of the human race
to quote Lao Tzu or what lobs up was
purported to have said if you do not
quarrel no one on earth will be able to
quarrel with you recompense injury with
kindness to those who are good I am good
to those who are not good
I am also good the softest thing in the
world dashes against and overcomes the
hardest
there is nothing softer or weaker than
water and yet for attacking things that
are firm and strong there is nothing
that can take precedence of it now is 'm
calls for man to embrace a world of
simplicity and silence wisdom and the
Taoist sense isn't read in books or
communicated by speech
a true follower of Taoism holds riches
and power as unimportant in short it
totally and wholeheartedly embraces a
simple life now let's pull back a minute
and see why why would loud sir whoever
loud sir was call so eloquently to look
back on simpler times when humans were
more in daily touch with the natural
forces of nature maybe he said this
because these were rough times it was
the eastern or later Jo period China
under the Western Jo Kings had been
broken up since 722 BC at least from
that point on it was every man for
himself and all these little kingdoms
that were part of the feudal system in
China they spent the next several
hundred years playing Rock'em Sock'em
robots with each other until 221 BC when
there's finally one ring to rule them
all and Qin chuan comes out on top so in
short these were not the best of times
the eastern Cho period no matter the
spring and autumn our warring States
portion of the eastern Cho times were
rough and when times are unbearable it's
common in every generation for people to
reminisce about the old days when life
wasn't so complex like it is now with so
many pressures all bearing down at the
same time and 2,500 years ago it was
well only natural that man was less
removed from nature than today living in
tune with nature was more fresh in the
memories and traditions of Zhuo Dynasty
Chinese than in these modern times so
when all the sudden Taoist beliefs
become more widespread and popularized
Taoism acts as a kind of black hole
where these thousand-year-old or more
folk traditions from the Shang Dynasty
and earlier they just gravitated towards
that force and became one with it loud
tsa's daodejing was written as a
reaction against these times and feudal
china and the wholesale disruption to
society that came with it
he saw this wisdom as a way to reverse
the backwards slide that china was in by
following the teachings contained in the
daodejing
lotsa offered a certain remedy to the
province of endless warfare and inhumane
treatment that came in the wake of these
battles
that's essentially what loud says set
out to do in the 1993 by the way in the
town of Gordian near Jing men in Hebei
west of Luhan the oldest copy of the
daodejing was found which dated to
somewhere around 300 BC so it goes back
to the very least to this time Rousseau
Thoreau and countless others made this
call to follow nature's laws according
to some watch n there was one time when
supposedly Confucius met loud so they
were of a similar time Perry though lots
that came first Asuma Chen explained
Confucius sought out Ponce's advice
about some matter pertaining to history
or ritual or something like that
Lao tzus reply was the men about whom
you talk are dead and their bones are
molded to dust only their words are left
moreover when the superior man gets his
opportunity he mounts aloft but when the
time is against him he is carried along
by the force of circumstances I have
heard that a good merchant though he has
rich treasures safely stored appears as
if he were poor and that the superior
man though his virtue be complete is yet
to outward seeming stupid
put away your proud heir and many
desires you're insinuating habit and
wild will they are of no advantage to
you this is all I have to tell you
Confucius was so struck by these words
of wisdom that he declared I know how
birds can fly fishes swim and animals
run but the runner may be snared the
swimmer hooked and the flyer shot by the
arrow but there is the dragon I cannot
tell how he mounts on the wind through
the clouds and rises to heaven today I
have seen Lao Tzu and can only compare
him to the dragon and that was the first
and last time
Confucius allegedly met Lao Tzu when we
talk about Taoism the two central
characters are loud so who
we already mentioned the second person
tied to Taoism is strong so the two
essential works of Taoism are that
daodejing and the Johnson drawings of
being the name of the philosopher
credited with writing it as well as the
name of the work Lao Tzu is considered
the founder and Duong 'aa is considered
the greatest disciple a person that most
represented what Taoism was all about
now you also have the less famous leads
leads a' is the third sacred work of
Taoism since trongsa mentioned the leads
ax in his work the order of appearance
of the three great works of Taoism are
daodejing
leads ax and drunk sir the letsa is only
eight chapters and is perhaps the most
accessible and straightforward of the
three works though you should still keep
your cliff notes close at hand now as
far as the actual writing of the
daodejing well most all china scholars
say this is all a bunch of BS but i'm
gonna tell it to you anyway the legend
regarding how it came to be written went
like this Lao Tzu he was a curator at
the Royal Library of Cho this would have
been around the middle or late middle at
the eastern jo may be the last half
century of the spring and autumn period
spring and autumn is just beginning to
merge into the warring States Period
right about now it was the time of Jo
Ling Wong he was the 11th king of the
eastern Cho we call it the eastern Jo
because the capital was at law young in
Hunan
rather than to the west and housing near
uh in China she near Xian Lao Tzu got so
fed up with the deteriorating situation
and how Kings were more interested in
fighting battles than caring for the
people and how society was degrading so
loud sir decides to opt out he leaves
his post and heads west to the outer
frontiers of what was then part of China
they made up the eastern joke as he gets
to the very very end of the frontier the
last stop before you left what was
considered jung-hwa or china the guard
there
gentleman by the name of Yin Shi he
recognizes loud sir because his fame had
preceded his arrival at the frontier
gate after loud tells Yin Shi he's had
enough he's giving up on the wickedness
and brutality of the times and was just
going to wander the western regions and
live like a hermit Yin she says too loud
sir old white beseech you before you go
wise loud sir please give me her wisdom
and so according to tradition Lao Tzu
sits down and writes out five
thousand-plus Chinese characters and
hands it to Yin Shi and that my friends
was the daodejing louses antidote to the
slide into chaos that the eastern jo
dynasty was facing and then as legend
has it he departed and was never heard
from again one interesting point to note
is when it all started no one at the
time was identifying the daodejing or
Louds or anything about this philosophy
as Taoism that came later lanza produced
the daodejing drunks have perfected the
interpretation and through his work made
it more accessible and defined but it
wasn't until the Han Dynasty that the
whole shebang was sort of organized and
identified as thought Joe or Taoism
actually the Chinese is thought gel for
the Taoist religion and dal Jia for
philosophical Taoism not until these
celestial masters came into being did da
isms start to coalesce is a religion and
a movement up until these guys came
along at the start of the Eastern Han
Dynasty around the time of the Guang Wu
emperor guangwu D there was no organized
Taoism it was something that had been
spread evolved and now comes the Han
Dynasty which is a breath of fresh air
after the very very unpleasant years
short though they may have been of the
qing dynasty and along comes the first
of the great celestial masters who is
going to really kickstart Taoism this
movement celestial masters I don't know
I guess you could think of them as the
Pope of the petition
douwe sec they represent and the very
first celestial master the one who is
most credited with organizing all taoist
beliefs gods folk customs everything was
junk Ptolemy he formed the Taoist sect
known as the way of the celestial master
Tim sure doll
also known as the Udo me thought who
though me means five pecks me is rice
and thought of course is the way the way
of the five pecks because if you wanted
to join that sect you had to donate five
pecks of me rice how much is that if one
pack is eight point eight one liters
times five roughly forty four liters are
one and a half a one point five five
cubic feet of rice you had to donate in
order to get into the get into the club
so anyone could join who had with ami so
during the Eastern Han which are the
years ad twenty-three to 230 this is the
period where the Roman Empire is at its
height of power and in fact when the
eastern Han is coming to a close
Rome has already peaked and is into its
slow agonizing decline so 142 ad
joong-dal Ling sets up the way of the
celestial master or the five pecks of
rice and we have the beginning of a
religious Taoist order the first
organized Taoist community located out
in Sichuan province in this period of
disunity where there is no central
Chinese government's ruling everything
what Jung da Lang set up in the north
part of Sichuan was a full-on theocratic
state in 215 this state merges with Sal
Taos kingdom of way this is just around
the time when the eastern Han is coming
to an end and morphing into the three
kingdoms era once this sect of Taoism is
absorbed into Telltale's world it
spreads quickly all over China insults
how you all remember from the Three
Kingdoms period Jang cowlings way of the
celestial master the first da was set
they were all about Chi the Chi Chi was
everything what does she mean another
hard one too
fine I mean it's an everyday character
it would be almost be impossible for a
Chinese to go through a day without
uttering that one syllable Kong Qi which
means air could cheek polite boo y'all
cut Chi you're welcome
Qi means air gas breath smell spirit it
also means to get angry or to bully in
Taoism it's the breathing definition
that most matters in the whole
discipline of Qi Gong chicken has been
around since the time of the legendary
Yellow Emperor founder of the Han race
these chicken breathing exercises had
long proceeded lanza going back to the
beginning of Chinese civilization up
through the time when Larsa and trongsa
were walking this earth before the
organized Taoism that arose during the
Eastern Han the local religion was good
old reliable shamanism and the priests
were those shamans who basically
communicated with the spiritual world
they were what we might also call
medicine men all these shamanistic
traditions were pretty well developed
and indelibly entrenched among the local
populace when Taoism came along and way
before loud said there was an already
well entrenched belief in some kind of
afterlife ancestor worship and rituals
to express that belief there was praying
to these unknown forces that controlled
nature there had to be in those days
people's lives depended on the weather
every summer including this one there's
always one horrific drought or another
somewhere in the United States
unfortunately sometimes people perish in
the heat it's terribly uncomfortable and
people have to make adjustments in their
life but it's not the end of the world
back in ancient times it pretty much was
the end of the world so people really
needed to use the power of prayer just
for their own survival against the
forces of nature the weather cycles
meant everything and if the cycles were
regular and food was planned to fall or
if there were disasters or unexplained
natural phenomena the people needed some
kind of deity or spirit who they could
ascribe this power to and it's these
rich shamanistic traditions practiced by
the people
that had plenty of time to co-mingle
with Taoist beliefs and this is where
you see all the Taoist gods and rituals
that we'll discuss next time shamanistic
values such as nature creating harmony
with your surroundings these very easily
meshed with the ideas Louds a wrote in
the daodejing lotsa by the way came from
the state of Chu which was mostly in
today's jung-soo province going back to
Ching sure toin you recall there were
seven warring States the Chu state was
one of them and of course it's the Qin
state that conquers the other six anyway
the Chu state had a particularly rich
shamanistic tradition and this is where
lotsa came from if he actually well
anyway John Calvin establishes the way
of the celestial master in 142 AD the
year by the way that way boy Yin
described for the first time the
chemical mixture of gunpowder celestial
master Chang is communicating with the
spirit of lotsa in organizing these
constantly evolving cacophony of local
beliefs all manners of rituals are
developed everything that is so
interesting about Taoism the alchemy
part the search for longevity and ways
to utilize the dao to achieve eternal
youth their sexual prowess
Qigong now it really starts to become a
more defined religion and whole
collection of beliefs and traditions
that start to penetrate to the very soul
of Chinese popular culture next time we
look at other aspects of Taoism we'll
see how it developed in the period after
the Han Dynasty will trace its
development to later dynasties and we'll
see as Buddhism slowly spreads in China
how ISM and Buddhism came into frequent
conflict with each other as priests
practitioners and monks from both
religions fought these protracted
behind-the-scenes battles for control of
the hearts and minds of the emperor in
the imperial court sometimes the Taoist
were on top and sometimes they felt in
favor and Buddhist monks had their way
we'll see this especially come the Tang
Dynasty in 440 ad during the southern
and northern
Dynasties period Taoism actually becomes
a state religion for the first time and
we'll look at all that stuff for now the
objective of this episode was to sort of
get a general idea of how Taoism came
about and to examine this proto dollas
Imperial I wanted to introduce who were
the revered figures what could the tax
how do you pronounce these names and
what it was generally all about next
time we'll look at the Taoist gods and a
little about the role many of these gods
play in Chinese culture today I just
wanted to lay the groundwork and next
week we'll check out some more history
of Taoism and take a peek inside and try
to make sense of what it's all about
anyone who wants to take the plunge I
encourage you to go online to Google
Books or any number of websites and read
the dial tagine it's not going to take
up a lot of your time there might be a
lesson or two contained inside that
could apply to you the one I like to
read it's not a conventional version
it's by a great writer Steven Mitchell
two books the daodejing and the second
book of the DAO a cherished gift from my
most spiritual and dearest friends
Michael out in the Green Mountain State
of VT and that's going to be all she
wrote for today as it always seems to be
this is your host and humble narrator
Laszlo Montgomery signing off from the
town of Claremont California
Carmageddon here in LA has come and gone
and turned out to be much ado about
nothing they should call this one y2k
the second take care all and I hope
you're enjoying your summer and that
you'll listen next week for another
exciting episode of a China history
podcast